The Joe Rogan experience.
If I didn't know who you were and I ran in you, I,
would've no idea that you're the same guy. It's crazy. You're a,
completely different human. Yeah.
You went from this guy that looked like you were really in bad shape to a guy
who looks like a guy would avoid in jujitsu. I like, that guy.
Let me get away from man. He's too big. You look great. That's awesome.
This is the greatest compliment I've ever gotten. Thank you very much,
by the way. All I want is to, to look like a big dude.
Who's not just gigantic and fat. That's all.
I want, dude. You look like a gorilla. You look like a dangerous human being.
Like how did you do it? Uh.
Well, over the past 20 years, I've gone back and forth with dieting.
I've I've lost a little weight. I've gained a, little weight back. Um,
how did I do it? I think that the,
the thing that I've done that has been sustainable is
undoing kind of look a lot of diets, come in and say,
just do this and you'll lose weight,
but we're not focused at all on how we got to whatever point we were at that
we considered non-optimal that we want to change. And so
undoing the bad habits that I had that I would associate with allowing myself to
get up to 550 pounds
is really more important than anything that I could say.
This is what I did to lose weight. Does that make sense? Yes.
Yes. Um, so when did the process start?
So you kind of went back and forth,
but you've obviously been on a very steady course for how long.
Now? 20 years. So 19 years,
2002 was a first time.
I thought I really want to change my life.
And I started then. And.
How much weight have you lost? Instead.
2002, I went from five 50.
I did a liquid diet for two months and lost 80 pounds that 80 pounds I've never
dipped backed into,
but so I was four 50 and I went down to
close to just under 300, then went back up to 400,
then went down to 200, then back up to three 50.
And for the past five years I've been around the weight I'm at
now. So I've, I've really gotten that under control.
And what are you at right now? Two 70. That is incredible. That is,
that is so incredible. So you've lost more than 200 pounds.
Oh yeah. Yeah.
I mean, I solid, I've lost 200 pounds a couple of times.
But you've also put on muscle, like you different you're you're different.
All like you're unrecognizable.
Yeah. I think, listen,
the other strange thing about weight loss is when you're building
fat and you're storing fat,
your body is naturally building lean tissue too, just to support that fat.
So under every obese person, there's a person with more than average muscle.
Mm. So, cause.
They have to carry around all.
Their way. Yeah.
You're you're naturally building muscle just by like raising your heavier arm.
I totally say that to Ralphie may. Yeah. Cause Ralphie,
Maye was so heavy and I was like, look at your legs, dude. I, I go,
you'd be able to kick someone through a wall if he just lost weight. Yeah.
Like is the, the, just to be able to carry around.
I have gnarly calves. I bet you do, dude. Yeah.
I that's one of the few things that like, I,
I train sometimes with body builders now and my coach is a professional body
builder, Jared, Jared feather, shout out to him. Um,
and he has a lot of calf emphasis and I'm like, I don't really need to do that,
bro. <laugh> my cows are.
Good. Yeah. You C carried around 500 pounds for years. Yeah. Let's go to a,
can you show me a photo of Ethan when he was at his heaviest?
So finally, so has this affected your work because you know,
you were getting roles for so long as an actor when you were large. Yeah.
I think so. Yeah, it has. There,
there was a time if we go back to like 2015, um,
and I had been really thin and when I say really thin, I mean 200 pounds,
but for me that was extraordinarily thin. That's what I weigh.
It was just crazy. And you're a lot bigger than me. It's crazy to see.
I looked, I thought I looked, um, gone, God.
That's in look at those two pictures. Like,
like if a girl broke up with you,
<laugh> when you were on the left and then ran into you, uh, you know,
at the airport when you were on the right. I mean that is bonkers man. Yeah.
It's incredible. Yeah. I mean truly.
Truly incredible. That's my favorite picture. And that's not even down lighting.
I, I was an idiot and I'm not super thrilled with my hair and my
head and I wouldn't shave my head because I thought the hat looked better with a
little bit of hair poking out and then it got in the way of down lighting. So,
oh, that's fun. That's not even as good a picture.
That could have been down lighting. That's what everybody wants for abs. Yeah.
They want down lighting, see the guns. Um, so
your, your training regimen must be like pretty strict though.
Look at that picture. That is so bananas dude. Yeah. What, what movies.
Ever wrong? Remember the Titans. Wow. Yeah, that, that,
that wasn't even the heavy.
That that's not the heaviest, I mean.
I was probably close to 500 there, but no, that's, that's not even the heaviest,
I, I don't know what to point to like this picture down here is I believe after
remember the Titans and I'm certainly a little bit heavier. Yeah. Wow.
When you look at that and you, how far you've come, I mean,
it has to be incredibly satisfied.
It's incredibly satisfying, but you know, look, the reality is that, um,
I don't, I, I have mental illness and I can't,
I don't look at myself and think like, God, I look great. I, I,
I see nothing but negative stuff every day.
And I try to convince myself, I try to find something that I'm happy with.
Usually it's my traps. I can look at my traps cuz it's lean.
There's not a bunch of loose skin hanging there.
They're not all scarred up from surgeries. And I look at my trap and I go like,
okay, that looks good. And based on that,
I can then start to feel okay about myself, looking at those pictures.
You know, that's also a, a long time ago and I just don't,
I cannot relate to how I lived then. Wow. It,
it it's, it's, it's very bizarre. Now.
When you say you have mental meaning that you're aware of this,
right? So you're aware you have a distorted perception of yourself. Yeah.
Very.
Much so. And it, what it,
what do you think is what's fueling that distorted perception?
I, when I go back to like my childhood,
I was put on a diet when I was five. And prior to that,
I had no sense of self.
There were I existed and clearly I,
I had fun and I played, but I was not aware of my body as a thing.
Kind of, if it is external to me as a separate component to me or,
or just as a thing itself, it just was. And at live,
I was put on this diet and all these, uh,
parts of me were pointed out as being super negative.
And so I just, at five years old. Yeah. And, and I really, and by the way,
in fairness, if you look at the average five year old today, I,
I wasn't like, I wasn't obese at five. I was a chubby five year old,
but I was super active and I wasn't eating junk food all day long. And.
You're growing into your body too. Yeah.
And it's the thing about five year olds. It's like,
I've seen kids that look kind of chubby and then you run into 'em a few years
later, like, look at you, you're a Beanstock yeah.
You have four it myself and, and you watch them.
They kind of go in different directions wide and then tall. And yeah,
there, there isn't a set thing. Um, but I,
I spent most of my life feeling wrong,
like literally that I was wrong or bad or there was some,
some just super negative about myself.
And so I still have to fight through.
That today.
Catch new episodes that Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video and
audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.